---
layout: post
title: "More Dice"
tagline: "this time, there's more"
description: "The other versions of diceroll"
category: showing
tags: [python, roleplaying]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### Variation

If you remember back to the [previous post](/showing/2012/06/21/roll/), 
I said that I was inspired to make a bunch of different versions of `diceroll.py` 
to accomplish different things. One saved the dictionary of rolls to a file, 
one was built for speed, one only rolled d20s, and one was free of color 
and ASCII art the the [Colorama](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/colorama) disinclined.

#### [diceroll-file.py](https://github.com/thunderchao/roleplaying/blob/master/diceroll/diceroll-file.py)

Working with files as a new programmer is a little intimidating. The last 
thing I'd want to do is somehow mess things up in a major way, so I always 
proceed very cautiously with file I/O operations. Once you get the hang of 
it though, it's not so bad.

So the only difference here is just the last bit, where I tack the following 
onto the end of `diceroll.py`:

{% highlight python %}
filename = set_name + '.txt'
f = open(filename, 'w')
f.write(str(roll_set))
f.close()
{% endhighlight %}

Pretty simple, nothing fancy _at all_. Not even taking each key:value pair 
in the dictionary and printing them out all nice-like. I figured it'd be 
easier to keep things this way in case you wanted to re-import the dict 
without any hassle and barely any code.

#### [diceroll-quick.py](https://github.com/thunderchao/roleplaying/blob/master/diceroll/diceroll-quick.py)

This variant strips down the original quite a bit. It takes out the naming 
mechanism (since it saves nothing to a dict) and the number-of-rolls option, 
giving the user just one value, making you run it again if you want another 
roll.

It still retains the input lines, however, so there's no need to pass args 
straight to the program from the command line. This makes it self-contained 
and easy-to-use, and I like that.

#### [diceroll-d20.py](https://github.com/thunderchao/roleplaying/blob/master/diceroll/diceroll-d20.py)

This is the most stripped-down version. There's no option to choose the number 
of dice, the sides of the dice, or even how much you're adding on to it. 
Functionally, it's pretty bare, and only really of use if there are absolutely 
no dice to be found. So to make it a little less boring, I included this line:

{% highlight python %}
if roll == 20:
        print('CRITICAL!', end=', ')
{% endhighlight %}

Why? Because everyone loves a nat crit!

#### [diceroll-boring.py](https://github.com/thunderchao/roleplaying/blob/master/diceroll/diceroll-boring.py)

It's boring because all it is is functionality. I took all of the pretty out 
of it. The user-input is still there though. Because I like it.

As always, if you want to comment on this, tweet me up [@thunderchao](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?screen_name=thunderchao).
